                                             REACT

React was introduced in 2013 by a company called Facebook by developer jordan walke.
Before react there are 2 frameworks called backbone.js and ember.js which are first fgrameworks in javascript.
it is used to develop single page application.
it is a component based application.components are reusable.
react is declarative.
The idea behind react is Ajax.
The react will render components on webpage without page reload.
react uses MBC architecture - Model View Controller
all windows uses MBC architecture.
when we install react application 3 dependencies will create - react,react dom,react Script. 
react methods createElement(),all the hooks.it uses diffing algorithm.
reactDOm used to create virtual dom.
react script used to run ,debug,test,eject the react application .
yarn,vite are used to install latest version of react.
npm create vite@latest

VIRTUALDOM:it is a copy of real dom .it compare one to one with realdom.

REALDOM:whatever we write on realdom that can be printed in webpage 


for single page application - React.js
for multipage application - Angular.js 

Framework-collection of library
Library-collection of functions or Methods



HOW TO CREATE REACT?
reacted can be created 2 ways using 
1.CDN way - internet mandatory 
2.Node way - constains 
a.npm - node package manager
  npm used to install,update,delete packages in js.in npm packages will be installed globally.
  npm install -g create-react-app
  create-react-app appname
  npm create vite@latest ------> to install latest version of react.


b.npx -node package executer
 used to execute package without install
 no need to install the packages globally.

 npx create-react-app appname 
 




 cd day1
 npm create vite@latestnpx
 create-vite
 project name: app
 slect framework: select react 
 select variant: select javascript 
 Done 
 cd app
 npm install
 npm run dev  
 copy path and paste in webpage or type letter o and press enter 
